---
layout: post
title: "Blog 8: Creating a New User in Linux"
date: 2020-10-29 11:35:00 -0700
categories:  Creating a new User in linux
---

# Creating a New User in Linux

It is a required and basic configuration task that every Linux system admin should be familiar with. We have completed similar configuration 
setup in prequisite CIT class. 

In this blog, I will post basic **linux commands** to create a new user and assign a new group or existing group to the new user.


# Adding a new user
```
useradd username
```
To allow this command to execute, we need to give root priveleage using sudo.

```
sudo useradd <username>
```
Making sure that new user has been added to the **/etc/passwd** 

```
ls /etc/passwd
```

# Logging as a new user

The following commands will prompt to enter and confirm the password.
```
sudo passwd <username>
```
# Creating a new user with Specific Directory

When creating a new user without specifying the directory will automatically creates user's home directory in **/home**.

However, we can specify the directory name when creating a new user.

```
sudo useradd -m -d /opt/username username 
```

# Assigning Specific ID to user

In linux system, users are identiefied by unique ID. When creating a new user, the new user is assigned with **next** available user ID.

We also can assign specific UID for a new user.

```
sudo useradd -u **ID** username
```

# Creating user with specific Group ID

When creating a new user we can assign **specific** Group ID number. This group ID should be created
before we can run the following command.

```
sudo useradd -g users username
```

We can check if the user with desired Group ID has been assigned.

```
id -gn username
```
# Assigning a User to multiple Groups

In Linux OS, there are two types of groups: Primary group and Secondary group.
So, if the new user is created without assigning a group, then by default the new user's home directory
will be in **/home**.

Following commands will assign different groups to the new user. We can assign supplementary groups by 
using  the tag **-G** along the new user.

```
sudo useradd -g users -G developer, analyst username

```

# Creating a New User by Specifying Login Shell

In most Linux OS, the default shell is set to **/bin/sh** or else **/bin/bash**.
We can also assign specific Login shell to the new user.

```
sudo useradd -s /usr/bin/shell username
```

We can verify if the commands has been executed by following commands.


```
ls /etc/passwd | grep <username>

cat /etc/passwd/<username>
```

