---
layout: post
title: 'Blog 3:Creating AWS S3 Bucket'
date: 2020-09-20 2:20:00 -0700
categories:'Creating AWS S3 Bucket'
---
# Creating a S3 Bucket
 Amazon Simple Storage Service(Amazon S3) is an object storage service that offers
industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. Amazon S3 provides easy-to-use management features so you can organize your data and
configure finely-tuned access controls to meet your specific business, organizational,
and compliance requirements.
	Amazon S3 is designed for 99.99999999999% (11 9's) of durability, and stores
data for millions of applications for companies all around the world.

By default, you can create up to 100 buckets in each of your AWS accounts. To create
additional buckets, you cna increase your account bucket quota to maximum of 1000 buckets
by submitting a service quota increase.

To create a bucket:

 1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open Amazon S3 Console
 2. Choose Create Bucket
 3. In Bucket name, Enter a DNS-Complaint name for your bucket.

>NOTE: 
> When assigning a bucket name, its should be unique across all Amazon S3
> Be between 3 and 63 characters long
> Name should NOT contain UPPERCASE characters
> Name should start with a LOWERCASE letter or number

 4. In Region, choosing the AWS Region where you want the bucket to reside.
 While selecting a Region, we should select region that is closer to you. To reduce the latency and
costs and address regulatory requirements.

> NOTE: S3 Objects are stored in particular regioon only unless explicitly transferred them to 
> another region.

 5. Bucket Settings to block Public Access.
 It is recommended to leave all settings enabled unless if the user requires to turn one or more of them off for using specific case.
EG: hosting a public website. Blocking public access settings that you enable for the bucket will also
enable for all access points that you craete on the bucket.

 6. Advanced Settins
 7. s3 Object Lock
 8. Select **Create bucket**


# Creating S3 Bucket using AWS CLI
 When creating S3 Bucket using AWS CLI, we have the option to specify the accounts or groups that should
be granted specific permissions on the bucket. There are two ways to give permissions using headers.

> * By specifying a canned ACL using the **x-amz-acl** requrest header. Each ACL has a predefined set of 
>   grantess and permissions
> * By specifying permissions **explicitly**. EG:  **x-amz-grant-read**, **x-amz-grant-write**, **x-amz-grant-read-acp**, **x-amz-grant-write-acp**, **x-amz-grant-full-control** headers.

The following command creates a bucket named **limbu-bucket**:
> $ aws s3api create-bucket --bucket limbu-bucket --region us-east-1

# Location Constratints outside **us-east-1** region
 By using the **Location Constraint** syntax to denote region outside us-east-1:
> $ aws s3api create-bucket --bucket limbu-bucket --region us-west-1 --create-bucket-configuration LocationConstraint=us-west-1
