---
layout: post
title: "Blog 6: Setting up LampStack using Dockerfile"
Date:  2020-10-14 9:18:00 -0700
Categories: Creating Lampstack using Docker file
---

# Creating Lampstack using Dockerfile to setup Affinity Server

I will use Docker Toolbox on Window to run the continer using ubuntu image. 
First, we will build Docker image using the docker **build** command .
We will setup a Lampstack which will display the affinity server on the localhost.

> docker build -t <Dockerfile> .

Here, **build** will use the dockerfile to build image. And '.' denotes that the image will be 
built on the current directory

# Using Ubuntu to build the dockerimage 

> FROM ubuntu:18.04

We will use the following syntax to prevent installing process from opening dialog boxes during installation
which stops the errors.

> ENV DEBIAN_FRONTEND = noninteractive

# Installing required packages

We will install several packages on this image. We will use **RUN** command to install the following packages.

Basically, like always we will RUN **UPDATE** and **UPGRADE** command before installing the packages.
Since, **update** and **upgrade** will update and upgrade repositories to new versions. It is alwyas a best practice to run these commands.

```
RUN apt-get update && apt-get upgrade -y
RUN apt-get install -y curl \
	vim \
	nano \
	git \
	apache2 \
	mysql-client \
	php libapache2-mod-php \
	php-mysql \
	php7.2-cli \
	php7.2-curl \
	php7.2-gd \
	php7.2-mbstring \
	php7.2-mysql \
	php7.2-xml \
	php-xml
```
# Running Affinity webserver on the localhost

We will clone the git repository for affinity and use **chown** the change the ownerhip of the directories.
Also, here, we will create a symlink of a cloned **public** file from affinity files.

> RUN cd /var/www/html && git clone https://github.com/csuntechlab/affinity.git && chown -hR www-data:www-data affinity/ && ln -s /var/www/html/affinity/public public

# Editing the inline files by COPYING or using Sed command on the Docker file

We can either COPY the text file and replace on the destination of the newly created image.
We can also use **sed** command to replace the **strings** of the inline by specifying the file's destination

I will demonstrate the steps to edit the strings of the files that is required to run the Affinity server on our localhost.

```
RUN sed -ri -e 's#DocumentRoot /var/www/html#DocumentRoot /var/www/html/public#' /etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default.conf

RUN sed -ri -e 's#DirectoryIndex index.html index.cgi index.pl index.php index.xhtml index.htm#DirectoryIndex index.php index.html index.cgi index.pl index.xhtml index.htm#' /etc/apache2/mods-enabled/dir.conf

RUN sed -ri -e 's#Require all denied#Require all granted#' /etc/apache2/apache2.conf
RUN sed -ri -e 's#Directory /var/www/#Directory /var/www/html/public#' /etc/apache2/apache2.conf

``` 
Again, we will use **RUN** along with **curl** command to install **composer** on the specified path.

```
RUN cd /var/www/html/ && curl -sS https://getcomposer.org/installer | php -- --install-dir=/usr/local/bin --filename=composer
RUN cd /var/www/html/affinity/ && composer install 

```

# Using **EXPOSE** command to denote the port 8080

We will use **EXPOSE** commad to denote that the container will listen on the specified network port at runtime.
Here, we will use port **80**.

> EXPOSE 8080 

At the end of the docker file, I used a command to start the **apache2** service. It will create a file that will show the **head** of the localhost.

> RUN service apache2 start && curl localhost | head > test_localhost 

After running all the commands listed above. It will create an Docker image and a file with name 'test_localhost' will also be
created. 

We can use **cat** command to open the file **test_localhost**. It will show the head section of the **Affinity** web server.

```
 cat test_localhost
<!DOCTYPE HTML>
<html class="no-js" lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge,chrome=1">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <meta name="description" content="   Web Service Documentation
">
    <title> Web Service |   Documentation
</title>
```

